it's not every day that I get to catch
vegan gains on a factual error but he
made a mistake in his video about Canada
goose that I think is actually quite
interesting and instructive and also
reflects some of the issues I've been
talking about in recent videos on this
very YouTube channel he assumes based on
their advertising that Canada deuce
Canada goose pardon me
produces coats made out of duck down or
perhaps goose down neither of those
things is true although they use the
word down somewhat vaguely if you check
the details on their website Canada
goose will confirm for you that their
jackets are stuffed with chicken
feathers even worse their chicken
feathers that are a byproduct of the
poultry industry now if you've done some
research on this you will find that the
factory farming of chickens engages in
some gruesome practices to try to get
chickens to shed as many feathers as
possible before they're slaughtered onto
the floor of the factory farm which is
often not a real floor for this reason
so that they can collect the fine
feathers that fall off of the chicken
they'll have a grid and then a solid
floor under that so they can easily
remove the feathers and use them for
industrial purposes such as this now how
do you get chickens to shed more of
their feathers before you take them away
to be executed
you can poison them you can electrocute
them but actually what I've read is
common are simply using different
methods of terrifying them including
turning the lights off and on suddenly
and playing loud noises and things like
that
now whether or not these methods are
really effective is one thing whether or
not farmers do them as another and
believe me some guys on the farm can
decide that terrifying chickens makes
them shed their feathers and can engage
in animal cruelty for this reason it
doesn't mean it works scientifically
folks I think actually some of the
chemical additives that are given to
chickens to make them grow more rapidly
have turned out you know they're
terrible in terms of their environmental
impacts they don't cause health problems
for humans directly in terms of the the
meat of the chickens but a lot of them
have really terrible effects in terms of
the waste stream cycle from animal
agriculture but some of them have turned
out when scientists actually went in and
looked and verified farmers have been
forced feeding chickens with these
horrible chemicals and they're not even
effective so this is another dimension
of the bizarre evils of mass animal
agriculture um I made a long video
recently talking about effective methods
of activism talked about different types
of legal challenges you can bring
against meatpacking industry and so on
you know executing cows is not illegal
but if you look in the details a huge
truck that weighs over a certain limit
going over a certain bridge they may be
violating the law on that if you can
bring a case to court saying this truck
going over this bridge is illegal now
you've got a wedge issue get in the
newspapers start talking about the
deeper issues but also in the short term
create a problem for the industry start
asking difficult questions right do you
think it's legal in your country
wherever you're living to advertise
chicken feathers as down I can tell you
that here in Canada it is not legal and
anyone who wants to get their act
together to go to court would have a
very strong case to make against the
Canada Goose company that their jackets
are illegal that they are getting
gauging in deceptive and false
advertising practices because very few
people are aware that it is not duck
down that it is not goose down that it's
actually these chicken feathers now
again to be clear for those of you who
are big fans of Gary France aione you
can see my video made quite recently
about Gary France a on his theory and
approach to veganism my point is not
that it would be more ethical for them
to use duck down instead of chicken
feathers they're both horrible from
vegan perspective but my point is this
type of detailed pragmatic nuanced
approach to animal rights gives you real
opportunities to make a difference
opportunities to get the more profound
issues into the press sometimes by
engaging with legal issues that are if
regarded in isolation
perhaps meaningless Canada goose is a
scumbag company take them to court
give them hell